Nhan Cao
Wendy Thomas
FYS 112-02
March 5, 2019
Compassion, not so simple
Humans stand out in the animal kingdom as the most intelligent species. With advanced technology and social structure, we humans have come so far, accessible transportation enabling one to travel across oceans in a day, instant communication worldwide, automation, mass construction, and so on. We (professors tell us to not to use we or us) have conquered the world, solved so many great challenges, and created things we once considered magical. There is, yet, still so much suffering and poverty that is swallowed in the shadow of such a bright and colorful glow of the modern world. Some might think we are living in a peaceful time, a time in which people understand and share compassion, but the truth is, we are just too far away from the ugly truth that we thought it was not present anymore.
In the “Toward a Compassionate Society,” Mahbub ul Haq has denounced the dark, hidden side of the society that we often neglect. A lack of compassion is present which is demonstrated in the form of differences in wealth, and the suffering is brought forth by poverty. It causes  forces Over millions of people have to work in horrifying working conditions, could only afford bad  inadequate to no health care, and live without clean water and essential nutrition supply while the other part of the world is living a rich, lavish wealthy life. People get the diseases from eating too much and carry out excessive food waste food waste is everywhere. Women’s contribution is neglected (how is this relevant?); countries are pouring money in the military when their people are living on the streets. The author also emphasizes on the ridiculous fact that the world politics is a power game and the powerful nations are the ones who control everything. To improve the situation, Mahbub ul Haq proposed six steps towards building a compassionate society. First is providing free education and immunization. Second is shifting national budget towards 5 critical human needs: education, primary health care, safe drinking water, adequate nutrition, and family planning. Then he suggests introducing micro-credits to increase self-employment. Next, he presses on implementing the code of conduct for arms sales to limit arms dealing with the poor nations. ul (it’s a Muslim name, I don’t think you can write it like ul Haq) Haq also holds that poverty should be eradicated from the modern world. Finally, he wishes to return the US to the people. (you have listed the steps but you need to explain how the author thinks these steps will improve compassion)Those steps, he believes, would help the society move away from war and poverty, as well as move humans closer to each other, and together, build a more compassionate society. The author  a new concept of humanity is needed to be found, and it should center on humans’ dignity rather than weapons or power, as well as Moreover,  authorities must ensure human security which he believes means “a child who not die, a disease that did not spread, an ethnic tension that did not explode, a dissident who was not silenced, a human spirit that was not crushed”(7).
I believe this article would still bring a lot of value to the students of FYS “Toward a Compassionate Society”, however, it should be supplemented with some extra content to offer the students a closer look at the dilemma the world is facing. The topics of ul Haq’s solutions are well-rounded, addressing global issues in its greatest aspects, ranging from individual level to international scale. While those are the cores of subjects to be tackled, how to tackle them is another issue. This essay will be analyzing two of the approaches mentioned, free education and microcredits and examine how they are conducted.
Free education is surely a great asset and advantage to people; however, it alone will not be able to deliver the result education is trying to achieve. Education is the first and foremost key factor in solving poverty. As Paul Glewwe agrees in the “Overview of Education Issues in Developing Countries” of Education Policy in Developing Countries, education has contributed to the rise of workers’ productivity, income, and health (4). However, providing free education is not enough, as not just any kind of education would yield the same result. As a matter of fact, according to Isaac M. Mbiti in “The Need for Accountability in Education in Developing Countries,” while the investment in education has significantly increased over the past few years, the general standard is still low. This is illustrated in India, where “roughly 50 percent of fifth-grade students could not read a second-grade text in rural India, and only about 45 percent could correctly compute a two-digit subtraction problem (Pratham 2014)” (6). The same situation exists in East African countries as well, where “only about 50 percent of fifth graders could read at a second grade level in English, while only about 60 percent had attained basic second-grade numeracy and a slightly higher proportion could attain second-grade literacy in Kiswahili (Uwezo 2013) ” (6). Paul Glewwe also notices the same issues as he notes evidence indicating that children in third world countries are not learning nearly as much as those in developed countries. This reveals the fact that even though governments have shifted their budgets towards education and enrollment rates have increased significantly, education is still facing some serious challenges. Mbiti also recognizes that “developing countries are plagued by high rates of teacher absenteeism, leakages of financial transfers to schools, ineffective school monitoring systems, and poor parental engagement” (6) and believes that they are “are all symptomatic of low levels of accountability in the system” (6). Money alone would not be able to make a huge impact on education. It requires dedication from the school administrators, the teachers, the parents, and the students themselves. Education is not an achievement one could attain as a guaranteed reserved seat in a train in a wealthy land, but is like a vision enhancing device that shows one the possibilities that were too foggy to see before, reveals them the path that someone else already took to get themselves out of the quicksand they are stuck in, or equips them with ideas of ways to make their new own path. Education is the material to make the bridge that could lead people to their dreamlands. The bridge, however, does not build itself; the learners need to take initiatives and to have a proactive mindset, education should be accounted for. It is the schools’, the teachers’, and the parents' job to show dedication, to teach commitment, to inspire innovation, and to motivate the young mellow minds to take initiatives. Agreeing with this point, Glewwe finds it surprising how so many institutions around the world are neglectful when it comes to this problem (4). This is to show that even though Mahbub ul Haq’s suggestion regarding education is undeniably insightful and promising, there is much more to the problem that needs to be addressed to yield a significant impact on the matter. It takes fidelity and care from both sides, school and family. It is crucial to make sure the importance of commitment and dedication in delivering effective education is well understood, and the rest will be left up to how compassionate one is to the others. I believe this part must be clarified has to be clear to the students of FYS 112, on to what it means to have a proper education and how it would would it enable a person prepare a person to be able to pierce through the wall of poverty.
Another very insightful approach is introducing introduced by Mahbub is microcredit. The key idea here is to let the poor people themselves be the solution. According to George Brown in the chapter,“When Small is Big: Microcredit and Economic Development” of the journal “Technology Innovation Management Review”, microcredit is a small loan that is given to people for the purpose of expanding their business or further self-development. The target group includes those who do not have a financially strong background and do not meet the level of credit required for normal loan booking. The money is not handed out easily to for anyone that asks for it, instead  but rather,  “microcredits are usually distributed via ( I know this is a direct quote but, grammatically it was incorrect) “character-based” lending, where the personal commitment, experience, and skills of the applicant are considered along with the quality of the business idea” (3). The qualification process ensures that investment is done in on someone who is ready for all the challenges and hard work that the task requires. “Its appeal comes from its capacity to provide the means for those who have the ability, drive, and commitment to overcome the hurdles to self-sufficiency” (3), says Brown. With a little push, people with motivation and a drive to escape poverty can start to stand up on their own, take care of themselves, and become a contributing and valuable member of the society. Giving out a loan is not the end of the story; “microlenders often take more time to assist borrowers with business planning and the application process than commercial lenders, and frequently provide free mentoring after the loan has been disbursed” (3). Aside from providing the material needed for launching a business, the program also offers insight and mentorship, the two very powerful and helpful tools in entrepreneurship to the borrowers. This is a thoughtful process that has a concrete and sustainable foundation when it which makes the people in trouble themselves to become their own solution, carefully allocates resources when selecting individuals who are ready to take action to pull themselves out of poverty, and provides them with financial support, as well as, mentorship. The result has measured up with its potential. In On a micro scale, there are have been many success stories of strong women in India who took a loan and started changing their lives, as well as, their children’s (lol started changing their children xD) (5). On the macro scale, Brown reminds readers about the contribution Grameen Bank made through micro loans when “with over 700 loans disbursed since 1997, the businesses in Project Enterprise’s loan portfolio generated US $1.56 million in local wages annually, with a 42% average increase in monthly profit after receiving a microloan” (3). These evidently demonstrate the successful impact of the method on the economy against all odds and risks that come along.  “In the United States, the Bureau of the Census indicates that small businesses (with fewer than 500 employees) create 90% of net new jobs, with the Small Business Administration noting that about 90% of employers have fewer than 20 employees” (3). This indicates the significance of small businesses and how much they altogether together contribute to the economy. Small businesses do not only help their owner but also considerably add their value to the network of the nation. Microcredit has proven its strength not only in the struggle to end poverty, but also in the advancement of the national economy. It truly solves the problem by making giving ways for people to be sustainable, so that and someday, they could move on without help from society. This offers an insightful (you have used insightful twice in the same paragraph, use intuitive or perceptive instead) lesson to the students about how to truly free someone from poverty.
Nevertheless, ul Haq’s method received faced great adversity due to the fact that microcredit comes with great risk. Normally, a loan is given when the borrower can prove that he has something of the same value that can be traded if he fails to repay the debt, but with microcredit, there is nothing the loan giver could hold for credits. This means that the microloan lender is at stake of losing all the money as the only thing that ties the tight them together is trust and hope. ul Haq was accused by his government of [...] (5) (WTF?). Indeed, the crisis in Andhra Pradesh, India 2010, for example, shows how brutal things could get when the attempt to build a business goes south (2). In the BBC’s article “India's microfinance suicide epidemic,” Soutik Biswas writes “the small loan has turned out to be a big curse for many in the state” (2). This is based on the government's report of more than 80 people who committed suicide in the few months before the paper was written (2). The reason behind this suicide epidemic was is their failure to repay the micro-loan, leaving their family struggling in debt. “This has triggered the worst ever crisis in India's booming microfinance industry,” (2) he says. Indeed, a randomized trial has been conducted in Hyderabad by Banerjee in 2009 when he and his colleagues divided a group of microloan applicants into two smaller groups randomly, granted loans to one but not to the other. Between the two groups, Banerjee reports no significant impact on income that microloan made (1). This demonstrates that just giving money for those who ask does not necessarily solve poverty, as Robert Kiyosaki said in his famous book Rich Dad Poor Dad, “being broke is temporary, but poverty of mind is permanent.” It means that the problem of not having money can easily be fixed, but bearing a mindset that stuck in poverty is harder to liberate, as however much support is granted, the borrower will eventually fall back to square one. This issue, however, is addressed by introducing loan borrower selection. Indeed(used it again, replace with certainly), as applied in America, the majority of microlenders report a repayment rate of 90% or higher (4). Microcredit involves huge risk, especially when not conducted properly. However, proper measurements are made to ensure the best result out of the limited resource. This brings up an angle that ul Haq did not mention, the responsibility of the poor. While it is true that the riches have more than enough, and it is heartless to hold on to their properties while there are people dying of hunger out there, making feeding the poors the riches’ responsibility forever is also not a solution. Being provided as many opportunities as one might, one he would not be able to make a difference if one he is not ready to seize it. A temporary push or assist can be made but in the long-term scope, the poor people have to be able to sustain themselves. The only way out here is to prepare for them, intellectually (for the knowledge and skills) and mentally (for the mindset and commitment), to go through hard-work to provide a better future for themselves and for their family. This is what I would like to supplement to ul Haq’s text to provide the student of FYS 112 a more in-depth view of inside out of conducting an act of compassion. Helping other people is not about what is given away, but rather how it is given. ul Haq did a great job in provoking the emotion in us(you can only speak for yourself, so maybe say, “provoking sympathetic emotions or empathy”), and it is important as it drives our action, yet philanthropy is not so simple because as if applied in the wrong way, it could worsen the situation.
The article has a great flow of thought. First, ul Haq starts with disputing the idea that we are living in a compassionate world. To prove his point, he presents contradicting phenomena that we have grown to see as obvious. He also reveals the cruel situations that have happened  happen so far, away from home that we often neglect. It all helps break down the peaceful, beautiful world that we thought we were living in. As informative as it is, the article is also thoughtful as he provides suggestions to the major core problems of the world. As of right now, it would make much more sense for the readers as they are already aware of the situation and start looking for solutions as well. He wraps up his argument by again focusing on the concept of humanity, of redefining the standard of the society we are living in. Overall, this piece revealed some of the the dark side of the society, as well as, offering great thought on the matter, keeping the reader engaged throughout the content.
In the end, Mahbub ul Haq has done an excellent job in raising awareness on everlasting issues that were hidden away from the eyes of the wealthy public by the up close luxuries. However, the situation is not as simple as it might look. The world needs help, but not simply any kind of support would help it. As a matter of fact, some of  the suggestions made by ul Haq if not get carried out properly, would not yield any significant result, and sometimes could even worsen the situation. The direction he heads to is undeniably correct, but to truly( too much use of truly throughout the essay) be able to take action against the suffering and poverty, readers need to dig deeper into the matter to find out a proper measure measurement that they could implement. 

